---
author: Mitchell "furtive" Morley
authorURL: https://twitter.com/furtive_raccoon
authorImageURL: https://imgur.com/HgkWbZt.png
title: Boost Legacy RL Seeder
sidebar_label: Boost Legacy Seeding
---

For a tournament organizer, carefully seeding an event is a critical task for maintaining 
 competitive integrity and for ensuring that players have a great experience.
It can be time-consuming and tedious, and the work involved scales up as events grow.
<a href="https://twitter.com/boostlegacy" target="_">Boost Legacy</a>, a tournament organizer specializing in Rocket League events, use an
 <a href="https://github.com/pfeiferj/smash-gg-rocket-league-seeder" target="_">in-house solution to seed their events from top to bottom</a>.

<!--truncate-->

Boost Legacy's process for seeding their events makes use of in-game rankings data for Rocket League.
That means that even if a player/team isn't known in tournaments, they can still receive an appropriate seed in the event based on their
 ranking in-game.

I spoke with staff at Boost Legacy to learn more.

## Can you tell me a bit about Boost Legacy's history?

*Boost Legacy is a Rocket League community organization that has been running tournaments since 2015.
We have had over 200 tournaments on the smash.gg platform.
When we first started we would have tournaments with 3-4 teams and have grown to recently having an event sponsored by Psyonix [the developer/publisher of the title].*

## What inspired you to build this automated process to seed by in-game rankings?

*One of the biggest challenges to running a fair tournament is to have good seeding.
Most of our events are single eliminations tournaments which makes it crucial to have good seeding so that you don't have some of your best teams going out early in the tournament.
With the new smash.gg API we've been able to seed our tournaments automatically based on in game rank data we pull from a third party service.*

*This means that every single team in our tournaments is given an accurate seed as soon as we close registration.
Having a good seed generated automatically relieves pressure from our staff in the busy time right before a tournament start and allows us to give more focus to small adjustments in the seeds of the top teams.*

## How does it work?

*Our code starts by getting information about the tournament so that we know the format of the tournament and how many teams we are seeding.
We then gather all of the registered teams and their participants connected accounts by paginating through the phase standings.
From here we get rank data from a third party service for each connected account of each participant of the teams.
A participant could have multiple connected accounts so we go through the rank data and pull out the highest rank for the format of the tournament.*

*We then calculate a weighted average for the team from the participants top ranks.
Once we have a team average we assign each team a seed based on that average.
Finally we push our seeding to the smash.gg API.*